_projects/demoting-confounds-text-classification.md, before:

---
title: Demoting Spurious Confounds in Text Classification

description: |
  We develop methods of discovering and demoting latent confounds in text classifcation which correspond to superficial patterns specific to the training set but don't generalize well.

people:
  - sachin
  - anjalie

layout: project
image: /img/project/deconfound.png
code: 
  - https://github.com/Sachin19/adversarial-classify
paper:
  - kumar2019topics
  - xia2020demoting
last-updated: 2020-01-11
---

Despite impressive performance on many text classification tasks, deep neural networks tend to learn frequent superficial patterns that are specific to the training data and do not always generalize well. In this work, we observe this limitation with respect to the task of native language identification. We find that standard text classifiers which perform well on the test set end up learning topical features which are confounds of the prediction task (e.g., if the input text mentions Sweden, the classifier predicts that the author’s native language is Swedish). We propose a method that represents the latent topical confounds and a model which “unlearns” confounding features by predicting both the label of the input text and the confound; but we train the two predictors adversarially in an alternating fashion to learn a text representation  that predicts the correct label but is less prone to using information about the confound. We show that this model  generalizes better and learns features that are indicative of the writing style rather than the content.

## Demoting Racial Bias in Hate Speech Detection

Commit message:

Anjalie editted 4 project pages related to her work to include in-line paper citations and be more project-centric and less paper-centric

_projects/demoting-confounds-text-classification.md, after:

---
title: Demoting Spurious Confounds in Text Classification

description: |
  We develop methods of discovering and demoting latent confounds in text classifcation which correspond to superficial patterns specific to the training set but don't generalize well.

people:
  - sachin
  - anjalie

layout: project
image: /img/project/deconfound.png
code: 
  - https://github.com/Sachin19/adversarial-classify
  - https://github.com/anjalief/unsupervised_gender_bias
paper:
  - kumar2019topics
  - xia2020demoting
  - field2020unsupervised
last-updated: 2020-01-11
---

Despite impressive performance on many text classification tasks, deep neural networks tend to learn frequent superficial patterns that are specific to the training data and do not always generalize well. This limitation not only hurts the performance of classifiers on out-of-domain data, but also can introduce problematic biases. Our lab has worked to develop methodology that reduces the influence of confounds in text classification tasks.

In Kumar et al. (2019), we introduce an adversarially-trained model for the task of native language identification. Standard text classifiers that perform well on the test set end up learning topical features which are confounds of the prediction task (e.g., if the input text mentions Sweden, the classifier predicts that the author’s native language is Swedish). We develop a method for representing these latent topical confounds and a prediction model that “unlearns” them by adversarially training two predictors in an alternating fashion. We show that this model generalizes better and learns features that are indicative of writing style rather than content. We additionally use this method, along with propensity matching and word substitutions, in Field and Tsvetkov (2020) in order to reduce the influence of confounding variables in the task of gender bias identification. Our work on reducing the influence of racial bias in hate speech detection also uses a model trained in an alternating adversarial fashion, which is designed to discourage the model from encoding confounds and perpetuating racial bias (Xia et al., 2020).
