_projects/media-bias.md, before:

---
title: "Influence Campaigns: Agenda Setting Online, Social Movements, Polarization"

description: |
  We are investigating media bias through a highly multidisciplinary approach that combines elements from NLP, political science, and economics. We are also working to identify false information spread on social networks through phylogeny analysis.

people:
  - anjalie
  - chan
  - antonio

layout: project
image: /img/project/media-bias.png
code: 
  - https://github.com/sopankhosla/PropagandaSemEval2020
  - https://github.com/anjalief/framing_agenda_setting
paper:
  - tyagi2020
  - khosla2020
  - field2018framing
last-updated: 2020-10-11
---

Modern technology has made news spread faster than ever, but with these advances come concerns about credibility and bias. While "fake news" stories can be fact checked, how can we identify news that is one-sided, misleading, or over-reported? In this project, we are investigating media bias through a highly multidisciplinary approach that combines elements from NLP, political science, and economics. We examine agenda-setting (what topics are reported) and framing (how topics are reported) and consider how these concepts can be used to manipulate public opinion.

## Understanding the BLM Movements with Emotions

## Phylogeny Analysis
This research project aims to address the problem of phylogeny analysis of small text messages posted on social media platforms, showing how this solution can help in the identification of false information spread on social networks. Differently from what has been done with longer texts, we will rely upon data-driven approaches, exploiting recent advances of deep neural networks in the fields of Natural Language Processing and pattern recognition.

This research is expected to produce outcomes that can be used by many actors. For example, social media platforms could directly apply the techniques developed to bring higher reliability and also transparency to the published data. People could also deploy them to verify the accuracy of the information posted on social networks and news portals. Moreover, this research can provide appropriate tools to achieve another level of understanding regarding online posts, taking into consideration their spread and power of influence.

Commit message:

Anjalie editted 4 project pages related to her work to include in-line paper citations and be more project-centric and less paper-centric

_projects/media-bias.md, after:

---
title: "Influence Campaigns: Agenda Setting Online, Social Movements, Polarization"

description: |
  We are investigating media bias through a highly multidisciplinary approach that combines elements from NLP, political science, and economics. We are also working to identify false information spread on social networks through phylogeny analysis.

people:
  - anjalie
  - chan
  - antonio

layout: project
image: /img/project/media-bias.png
code:
  - https://github.com/anjalief/framing_agenda_setting
  - https://github.com/amantyag/india_pakistan_polarization
  - https://github.com/sopankhosla/PropagandaSemEval2020

paper:
  - tyagi2020
  - khosla2020
  - field2018framing
last-updated: 2020-10-11
---

Online platforms have allowed news and opinions to spread faster than ever, but with these advances come concerns about credibility and bias. Actors can use social media or online newspapers to manipulate public opinion by rapidly spreading information that is one-sided, misleading, or even completely false. Our lab investigates biased or politically motivated content on a variety of online platforms in global settings. Unlike research teams that focus on social network features or other forms of structured data, we take an NLP-centric approach with deep analyses of text content.

Our work on agenda-setting (what topics are reported) and framing (how topics are reported) in Russian newspapers considers how these concepts can be used to manipulate public opinion by combining NLP, political science, and economics (Field et al., 2018). We have also examined polarizing messaging posted by Indian and Pakistani politicians about a terrorist attack in India (Tyagi et al., 2020).

Some of our ongoing projects include an investigation of emotions in 2020 tweets about the BlackLivesMatter movement. Specifically, we are developing a state-of-the-art model for detecting emotions in tweets, and analyzing how emotion content varies across users and types of content. In a separate project, we are performing a phylogeny analysis of small text messages posted on social media platforms in order to help identify false information spread on social networks. Unlike prior work, we are taking a data-driven approach that uses recent advances of deep neural networks in NLP and pattern recognition. Our work can aid online platforms in improving the reliability and transparency of published data, verifying the accuracy of posted information, and provide insight into the spread and influence of online posts.
